# 1.2 A First Program

We begin our study of Java with a **program**（程序） that **prints**（打印） a **message**（消息；信息） **greet**ing（问候） the world.

## Example 1

```java
class Greet
{
   // This program prints a simple message
   public static void main (String[] args)
   {
      System.out.println("Hello, world");
   }
}
```

Let us look **in detail**（详细地） at the **component**s（部件；元件；组成部分） of the **program**（程序） in Example 1.

1. `class`
    
    All Java programs are **contain**ed（包含） in a **class**（类）. The start of a class is **indicate**d（表明；指明） by the **reserved word**（保留字） **class**. Java **contains** about fifty **reserved words**, all of which are **list**ed（列出） **later**（后来；稍后） in this chapter.

2. `Greet`
   
    This is the name that **identifies**（identify 识别，认出） the **class**. **Customarily**（照例；通常；习惯上）, **classes** have names that **start with**（以 ... 开始） an **upper case**（大写） letter. We **chose**（choose 选择，过去时） the name **Greet** because the program **greets** the world but we **could have called**（也可以将其称作，虚拟语气） it `FirstProgram` if we had chosen to do so. **In fact**（事实上）, **as far as the computer is concerned**（就计算机而言，as far as ... is concerned）, we **could have called** the class `Athena` or `Saskatoon` but it is better, **for the benefit of**（为了 ... 的利益） your **human**（人类） readers, to use a **meaningful**（有意义的） name.

3. `{ }`

    The beginning and end of any **section**（部分） of a Java **program** are **indicate**d by **brace brackets**（花括号）, `{` and `}`. The beginning and end of the **class** are **indicate**d by the `{` in the second **line**（行） and the `}` in **the last**（最后的） line of the program.

4. `// This program ...`

    The two **adjacent**（邻近的） **slash**es（斜线） **indicate** a **comment**（注释） in a Java program. Anything on a **line** after `//` is **ignore**d（忽略） by the **compiler**（编译器）. **Although**（虽然） they do not **affect**（影响） the **way**（方式） that the program **work**s（运行）, **comment**s can be very useful to any person trying to understand a program. A **comment** can also be **indicate**d in a Java **program** by using `/*` to start the **comment** and `*/` to end it. Using this **style**（风格；方式）, we **could have written** our **comment** as `/* This program prints a simple message */` Usually, **comment**s that **appear**（出现） **entirely**（完全地，彻底地） on one line are written using the `//` style **while**（而） those that **occupy**（占用） **multiple**（多个） lines are written using the `/* ... */` **style**.

5. `public static void main (String[] args)`

    Java **program**s **consist of**（包含） one or more **method**s（方法）, (sometimes called **function**s（函数） or **procedure**s（过程） in other **program**ming（编程） languages). If the **program** is run **directly**（直接地） by the Java **interpreter**（解释器）, then **exactly**（精确地；正好地） one of its **method**s must be **called** `main`. (Such **program**s are sometimes called **application programs**（应用程序）. As we will see **later**（后面，稍后） when we study **applets**（小程序）, Java has other **type**s（种类） of programs that do not have a `main` method.) Our **program** has only one **method** so it must be called `main`. This line is the **header**（头部） of the main **method**. The other words and **symbol**s（符号） in the **header** will be explained later. **For now**（目前）, just use them, **exactly**（完全地） **as shown**（如同所示）.

6. `{ }`

    The **inner**（内部的，里面的） **pair of**（一对） brace brackets **define**s（定义） the beginning and end of the **definition**（定义） of the main **method**, just as the **outer**（外部的，外面的） **pair of** brace brackets **define**s the **limit**s（界限） of the **definition** of the **class**.

7. `System.out.println("Hello, world");`

    This **statement**（语句） **calls on**（调用） a **method** called `println` to **send**（发送） the **string**（一串） of **character**s（字符） Hello world **contain**ed in **double quotes**（双引号 "） to some **output device**（输出设备） (**probably**（很可能） your computer's **screen**（显示屏）). **Whatever**（不管怎样的） the **output device** is, we can think of it as **a page of paper**（一页纸）. The `println` **method**, given **a string of characters**, writes the **string**（字符串） on the page and then **moves on**（继续前进） to the **next**（下一个） line of the page, **ready**（准备好的） to **print**（打印） the next **item**（一条）, if there is one. As we **suggest**ed（建议） in **discuss**ing（讨论） the **header** of the **method**, the **detail**s（详情；细节） of the use of `println` will **be made clear**（被讲清楚） later. **For now**, just use it **exactly as shown**, with an **upper case** `S` on `System`, **dot**s（点） between `System`, `out`, and `println`, and **including**（包括） both the **parentheses**（parenthesis 的复数，圆括号） and the **terminating**（结尾的） **semi-colon**（分号）.

You **should**（应该） **notice**（注意到） in Example 1 the **way**（方式） in **which**（代表 the way） the parts of the **program** have been **indent**ed（缩进）. Everything **within**（在…里面） the **brace brackets** that **enclose**（围住） the **body**（主体；正文） of the **class** is **indent**ed two **space**s（空格）. **Similarly**（相似地）, everything **within** the **brace brackets** that **enclose** the **body** of the main **method** is **indent**ed two more **spaces** past the **header** of the **method**. **Indentation**（indent名词形式） is not **necessary**（必要的） for the computer but it can **improve**（改进；改善） the **readability**（可读性） for a **human**. **Since**（因为，由于，既然） your programs **should** be **clear**（清楚的；明确的；清晰的） **as well as**（也，还，并且） **correct**（正确的）, you **should** always **indent** them. Your **instructor**（指导教师） might **suggest** an **indentation** **style** that is **slightly**（稍微） **different**（不同） from the one that we use. The **important**（重要的） thing is to use a **style** that is both **clear** and **consistent**（始终如一的；一致的）.

## Example 2

**As far as a computer is concerned**, the **program** of the **previous**（前一个） example is exactly **equivalent**（等价的；相等的） to **either of**（两个中的任何一个） the **following**（下列的；下面的）:

```java
class Greet{public static void main(String[]
args){System.out.println("Hello, world");}}
```

or

```java
    class             Greet          {
        public
static

                                              void
   main(              String           [
         ]              args       )
   {
                 System.out.println
      (                              "Hello, world"
                  )     ;
         }  
                              } 
```

**Notice** the ways in which **blank**s（空白） are used in Example 2.

1. At least one **blank** must be used to **separate**（分开） two **adjacent** words. **Thus**（因此）, `classGreet` or `voidmain` would be **incorrect**（不正确对）.

2. If a **symbol**（符号） **appear**s between two words, it can be used as a **separator**（分隔符） **so that**（因此； 以至于） a **blank** is **no longer**（不再） **required**（必需的）. For example, `main(String` and `main ( String` are **equivalent**.

3. **Extra**（额外的） **blanks**, even **entire**（全部的；完整的） **blank** lines, do not usually change the **meaning**（含义） of the **surrounding**（周围的） **symbols**. Blanks can **even**（甚至） be **insert**ed（插入） before or after **dots** so that `System . out . println` would be **correct**. (It is, **however**（然而）, **consider**ed（认为） bad **style** to have **blanks** around **dots**; you should **avoid**（避免） it.) **Finally**（最后）, **extra** blanks **inside**（在 ... 里面） a string (inside **double quotes**) will not be **ignore**d so that the **output**（输出） **produce**d（产生） by **printing** the **string**s `"Hello , world"` and `"Hello, world"` would be **different**.

**A number of**（许多；若干） **variation**s（变种；变化） can be made to our **basic**（基本的） printing **technique**（技术）.

1. To print a **blank** line, we can **simply**（简单地） write

```java
System.out.println();
```

2. If we want to print a **string** that is longer than we have **room**（空间） for on one line of our program, we cannot **simply** **continue**（继续） the string onto a second line. If we **were to**（虚拟语气） do so, the **compiler** would get **upset**（混乱的） and **refuse**（拒绝） to **compile**（编译） our program. Instead, to print a very long **string**, we can write **something like**（大约； 有点像） the **following**:

```java
System.out.println("This will print a verrrrrry long"
                + " string on one line by joining"
                + " these strings into one string");
```

The **process**（过程） of **join**ing（连接） strings is called **concatenation**（连接）. The **plus sign**（加号） used with strings **acts as**（担任； 充当） the concatenation **operator**（操作符） in Java.

3. If we do not wish to **jump to**（跳到） a new line after printing a string, we can use the **method** `print` instead of `println` **as illustrated in**（如...所示） the next example.

## Example 3

The following program **illustrate**s（说明） some uses of `print` and `println`.

```java
class PrintDemo
{
   public static void main (String[] args)
   {
      System.out.println("Never put off till tomorrow");
      System.out.println();
      System.out.print("what you can do");
      System.out.println(" the day");
      System.out.println();
      System.out.println("after" + " " + "tomorrow.");
   }
}
```

This will **produce** the **following** output.

```
Never put off till tomorrow

what you can do the day

after tomorrow.
```

Since the beginning and end of a **string** to be written by `print` or `println` are **mark**ed（标记） by **double quotes**, how do we print a string that **contains** double quotes? Java's **solution**（解决方法） is to use a **backslash**（反斜线） **character**, `\`, **immediately**（紧接地） in front of a **double quote** to **signal**（通知） the computer that it should print the character `"`.

## Example 4

The **statement**

```java
System.out.println("Angela said, "
                 + "\"That's ridiculous, Bram.\"");
```

would print

```
Angela said, "That's ridiculous, Bram."
```

The **technique** used to print a **double quote** can be used in **a number of** other **ways**. For example, to print a **backslash**, you should write `\\`. To **jump to** a new line, you should write `\n`. (The `n` indicates a *new* line.) These **pair**s（一对） are called **escape sequences**（转义序列）. A **complete**（完整的） **list**（列表） of **escape sequences** can be found in **Appendix**（附录） C.

## Example 5

The **statement**

```java
System.out.println("A backslash: \\\na double qute: \"");
```

would **produce** the **output**

```
A backslash:  \
a double quote:  "
```

## Exercises 1.2

1. What does this program print?

```java
class Advice
{
   public static void main (String[] args)
   {
      System.out.print("If at first ");
      System.out.println("you don't succeed" + ",");
      System.out.print("failure may be ");
      System.out.println("your style");
   }
}
```

2. **Rewrite**（重写） the **following** program using the **indentation** **style** shown in the **text**（课文）.

```java
   class Quote{public static void main(String[]args){
   System.out.print("The unexamined life");
   System.out.println(" is not worth living.");}}
```

3. Write a **single**（单个的） Java **statement** that would print the following, **exactly as shown**.

```
A slash is "/"
while
a backslash is "\"
```

4. The **following** program **contains** a number of **error**s（错误）. **Rewrite** the program with the errors **correct**ed（改正）.

```java
class BadForm
 public void main (string() args);
 {
  System.Out.Println('What's wrong with this?')
 }
```

5. Write a Java program to print your name in **giant**（巨大的） **letter**s（字母） as shown in the **following** example.

```
   BBBB    EEEEE     A     TTTTT   RRRR    III   X   X
   B   B   E        A A      T     R   R    I    X   X
   B   B   E       A   A     T     R   R    I     X X
   BBBB    EEE     AAAAA     T     RRRR     I      X
   B   B   E       A   A     T     R   R    I     X X
   B   B   E       A   A     T     R   R    I    X   X
   BBBB    EEEEE   A   A     T     R   R   III   X   X
```

6. Write Java programs to print each **design**（图案）. You might find it **helpful**（有帮助的） to use **squared paper**（坐标纸） in **plan**ning（设计） the **appearance**（样子） of your output.

```
PARALLELOG                   APEZO                     D
 A        R                 R     I                   I I
  R        A               TRAPEZOID                 A   A
   ALLELOGRAM                                       M     M
                                                     O   O
                                                      N N
                                                       D
```

7. Write a **complete** Java program to print your name and **address**（地址） as they would **appear** on the **envelope**（信封） of a **letter**（信） written to you at your home.