# 1.3 Developing Java Programs

There are **a number of**（许多；若干） **way**s（方式） to **create**（创建） and **run**（运行） a Java **program**（程序）. If you are working with Java **on your own**（独立地）, you **should**（应该） **feel free to**（可以随便） choose the one that **suits**（适合） you. If, as is more **likely**（可能的）, you are in a computer science course, your **instructor**（指导老师） may **specify**（指定） the **way** that the **local**（本地的） system **operate**s（操作）. **Assuming**（假定） that you are **free**（自由的） to **choose**（选择） a **program** **development**（开发） **environment**（环境）, here is a **brief**（简短的） **outline**（概述） of the **choice**s（选择） **available**（可得到的）.

**Almost**（几乎） everything that you will need to **develop**（开发） Java **programs** is **available**（可得到的） **for free**（免费） from Sun Microsystems, the **developer**s（开放者） of Java. To **obtain**（获得） a **copy**（拷贝） of Java from Sun, go to their web site at *http://java.sun.com* and **download**（下载） the Java 2 **Standard**（标准的） **Edition**（版；版本） (J2SE) **Software**（软件） **Development**（开发） **Kit**（成套工具；工具箱） (SDK) **appropriate**（适当的，合适的） for your computer's **operating system**（操作系统）. The SDK **contain**s（包含） **a variety of**（各种各样的） **tool**s（工具）, **including**（包括） a **compiler**（编译器）, an **interpreter**（解释器）, and the **Application**（应用） **Program**ming（编程） **Interface**（接口） (API) - a **huge**（巨大的） **library**（库） of **class**es（类） **contain**ing **method**s（方法） that you will be using in your programs. You may **want**（要；想要） the **latest**（最近的；最新的） **version**（版本） of the SDK but, if your **institution**（机构） is using an **earlier**（较早的） **one**（代替 version）, it is **probably**（或许；很可能） best to get that (to **be sure**（保证） that **programs** **develop**ed at home will also run when **mark**ed（打分） at school). To use the SDK **directly**（直接地）, we must **operate** in a **text-based**（基于文本的） **environment**, **without**（在没有...的情况下） using a **mouse**（鼠标）. We will **examine**（检查） the **details**（细节） of this **process**（过程） **shortly**（立刻；马上）.

As an **alternative**（供替代的选择）, there are many **versions** of **programs** called **Integrated**（集成的） **Development** **Environments** (IDE's) that **provide**（提供）, as the name **suggest**s（暗示；使想起；表明）, an **environment** that is **design**ed（设计） to **assist**（帮助） the **user**（用户） in **developing** Java **programs**. An IDE can help you in **organizing**（原形 organize， 组织） **file**s（文件）, writing **programs**, finding **mistake**s（错误） in **programs**, and **run**ning（运行） programs - using both a **mouse** and the **keyboard**（键盘）. Some IDE's **come complete with**（配有） all **tools** **necessary**（必要的） for program **development**（开发） **while**（而） **others**（其他的） **require**（要求；需要） that the SDK be **obtain**ed from Sun. Some are **free**（免费的）; others are **quite**（相当） **expensive**（贵）. If you are interested in using an IDE, a **search**（搜索） **engine**（引擎） on the web pointing to "Java IDE" will get you **a great deal of**（大量的） **information**（信息） **about**（关于） what is **currently**（当前） **available**.

To **start**（开始） the **development** of a **program**, you must first write the **source program**（源程序） using some **text editor**（文本编辑器）. If you are using an IDE, **then**（那么） this will be part of the IDE. **If not**（如果不是）, then you can use one of the **text editor**s **available** with your **operating system**. **As examples**（例如）, Windows has a text editor **called**（叫做） Notepad; UNIX **system**s（系统） have **a number of** editors, **including** pico, vi, and emacs; and X-Windows has nedit and xedit. It is better to use a text editor **rather than**（而不是） a **word processor**（文字处理器） **since**（因为） we want to **create** a **simple**（简单的） **text file**（文本文件） while **word processor**s **tend to**（倾向于） **produce**（产生） **files** that include **information** about **layout**（版面，布局）, **font**s（字体）, **and so on**（等等）. The **program** must be **save**d（保存） in a **file** with a name of the **form**（格式） (**Throughout**（在整个...） this book, **item**s（内容） **print**ed（打印） in a font **like**（像） this and **surround**ed（包围） by **angle bracket**s（尖括号） are used to **indicate**（表明；指明） **form**s. **Actual**（实际的） **value**s（值） are **obtain**ed by **substituting**（原形 substitute，用…替换） something of the **required**（要求的） **form**, **without**（不带） the **angle bracket**s. **Anything**（任何事；任何东西） not **contain**ed in **angle bracket**s should **appear**（显得） **exactly**（完全地） as shown.)

```
<name>.java
```

where <name> is exactly the same name that was used for the class. The .java part is called an extension. As an example, the source file for a program contained in a class called Sample should be called Sample.java (with the case of the letters matching exactly).

Once the program has been written and saved, it must then be compiled into Java byte code. If you are working with an IDE, then a mouse click should invoke the Java compiler. If you are working in a command window, the compiler can be invoked for the program in the file called Sample.java by writing

   javac Sample.java
Before converting the program to byte code form, the compiler first tries to find mistakes in the program. It cannot find all mistakes but it is quite clever and it can detect many of them. If errors are detected during compilation, a message will be printed and compilation will not be completed. If this occurs, the programmer must analyze the problem, correct the source code, and repeat the attempt to compile the program. With a complex program, this process may be repeated many times before a program compiles without errors.

Once the compiler is happy with the form of the program, it will compile it to produce a byte code file called <name>.class. At this point, we must call upon the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) to run the program by interpreting the byte code and executing the program's instructions. In an IDE, another mouse click should allow you to do this. In a command window, the JVM can be invoked by writing

   java <name>
As an example, for the program originally created in the file Sample.java and compiled into the file Sample.class, we would run the program by writing

   java Sample
Notice that there is no extension on the file name in this command.

Even if a program compiles correctly, it may not run correctly. If this is the case, then once again the problem must be analyzed and the program must be corrected in the editor, re-compiled, and re-run. This cycle, sometimes called the program development cycle, is illustrated in the next diagram.


Exercises 1.3
Copy and run the program shown in Example 1 on page 6.

To get some familiarity with Java's reactions to mistakes in a program, try introducing the following errors (one at a time) in the program of Question 1 and then attempting to compile and run the resulting program. Note the result in each case.
Change Greet to greet.
Change main to Main.
Change println to write.
Add a semi-colon after args).
Omit the square brackets after the word String.