# 3.5 Nested if Statements

We have **see**n（了解） that we can use `if` **statement**s（语句） to **choose**（选择） between two **alternative**s（二择一选项）. **Frequently**（频繁地；经常地）, **however**（然而）, we want to **choose** from among（在 ... 之中） more than two **possibilities**（原形 possibility，可能性）.

## Example 1

If we want to write a statement **based on**（基于） the **sign**（符号） of a **variable**（变量） `x`, we could write three `if` **statements**.

```java
if (x < 0)
     System.out.println("value is negative");
if (x > 0)
     System.out.println("value is positive");
if (x == 0)
     System.out.println("value is zero");
```

For any **value**（值） of `x`, this **solution**（解决方法） **involve**s（包含） three **test**s（测试）. We can **increase**（增加） the **efficiency**（效率） of the **code**（代码） by **nest**ing（嵌套） the **statement**s. This **involves** placing one `if` statement **within**（在...里面） **another**（另一个） **as shown**（如...所示） in the **next**（下一个） example.

## Example 2

This **improve**s（改进） the **efficiency** of the **code** in Example 1.

```java
if (x < 0)
   System.out.println("value is negative");
else
   if (x > 0)
      System.out.println("value is positive");
   else
      System.out.println("value is zero");
```
 
Now, **if**(如果) `x` is **negative**(负的), only one **test** is **perform**ed(执行) **while**(而) **if** `x` is **positive**(正的) or **zero**(0), only two **test**s are **perform**ed. In no **case**(情况) is it **necessary**(必要的) to **perform** three **test**s.
 
In the **next** example **nest**ing is used in a **slightly**(稍微) more **complex**(复杂) **way**(方式).

## Example 3

The `if` **statement** shown **below**(在下面) **efficiently**(高效率地) **determine**s(决定) the **largest**(最大的) **among**(在...之中) three **value**s `x`, `y`, and `z` and **assign**s(赋值) this **value** to `largest`.

```java
if (x >= y)
   // y eliminated(被排除) - largest must be either x or z
   if (x >= z)
      largest = x;
   else
      largest = z;
else 
   // x eliminated - largest must be either y or z
   if (y >= z)
      largest = y;
   else
      largest = Z;
```
      
There are many other **way**s that we could **determine** the largest of three **value**s but the one shown here **involve**s the **least**(最少的) work. 

In the examples that we have shown **so far**(迄今为止), we have been **follow**ing(遵循) the same **indentation**(缩进) **pattern**(模式) that we **introduce**d(介绍) at the beginning of this chapter, **align**ing(对齐) **corresponding**(对应的) `if`'s and `else`'s and **indent**ing two **space**s(空格) past them for **statement**s **nest**ed inside the `if`. If we have a long **sequence**(序列) of **nest**ed `if` **statement**s, the **resulting**(结果的) **indentation** can become **excessive**(过度的, 过多的), **leaving**(leave 留给) us little **room**(空间) on a line for our **statement**s. To **overcome**(克服) this, we sometimes **vary**(改变) our indentation **pattern**.

## Example 4

This **statement** prints a **comment**(评论) that **depends on**(依赖) the **value** of the `char` variable **grade**(成绩).

```java
if (grade =='A')
   System.out.println("Excellent");
else if (grade == 'B')
   System.out.println("Good");
else if (grade == 'C')
   System.out.println("Average");
else if (grade == 'D')
   System.out.println("Fair");
else if (grade == 'E')
   System.out.println("Poor");
else
   System.out.println("Invalid grade");
```
   
**As well as**(不但…而且) noting the indentation style, **note**(注意) that the **last**(最后的) line covers the **case** of an **invalid**(无效的) **grade**. You **should** always be **sure**(确信) that your code **cover**s such **possibilities**(可能性). 

A problem **arise**s(出现) with **nested** `if` statements when one of the `if` statements has no `else` **clause**(子句). The following **segment**s(片段) **illustrate**(举例说明) the problem.

A:    
```java
if (p)
   if (q)
      System.out.println("Path A-1");
   else
      System.out.println("Path A-2");
```
 
B:
```java
if (p)
   if (q)
      System.out.println("Path B-1");
else
   System.out.println("Path B-2"); 
```

The **indentation** in **segment** A **indicate**s(显示) that the `else` **clause** is **associate**d(使关联) with the second `if`. The **indentation** in **segment** B **indicate**s that the `else` **clause** is **associate**d with the first `if`. **Since**(因为；由于) **indentation** is **ignore**d(忽略) by the computer, the two **segment**s have **the same**(同样的) **structure**(结构). The problem of **deciding**(decide 判定) which **interpretation**(解释) is **correct**(正确) is called the **dangling**(悬挂的) `else` problem. In Java, **interpretation** A is the **correct** one. The **general**(一般的) **rule**(规则) is to **associate** an `else` with the **nearest**(最近的) **available**(可得到的) **preceding**(前面的) `if`. If we want to have the `else` **associate**d with the first `if`, the **preferred**(首选的) **solution** is to use **brace bracket**s(花括号) to "**close off**(封锁；隔绝)" the second `if` **as shown in**(如...所示) the next **segment**.

B*:
```java
if (p)
   {
      if (q)
         System.out.println("Path 1");
   }
else
   System.out.println ("Path 2"); 
```

An **empty**(空的) statement **provide**s(提供) an **alternative**(替代的) **solution** to the problem.

B**: 
```java
if (p)
   if (q)
      System.out.println("Path 1");
   else
      ; // to "close off" the second if
else
   System.out.println("Path 2");
```
 
## Exercise 3.5

1. **Simplify**(化简) the following **sequence** by **nest**ing **so that**(以便) the **effect**(效果) is **the same** but **fewer**(较少的) **comparison**s(比较) are **require**d(需要；要求).

```java
if (temperature > maxTemp)
   System.out.println("Porridge too hot");
if (temperature < minTemp)
   System.out.println("Porridge too cold");
if (temperature >= minTemp && temperature <= maxTemp)
   System.out.println("Porridge just right!"); 
```

2. **Consider**(考虑) the following **statement**.

```java
if (age < minAge)
   if (income > minIncome)
      System.out.println("Accept");
   else
      System.out.println("Reject"); 
```

What will the statement print if

a. `age > minAge` and `income < minIncome`?

b. `age < minAge` and `income < minIncome`?

3. Using **nested** `if` **statement**s, write a **single**(单个的) statement that prints the smallest value **contain**ed(包含) in the **variable**s `a`, `b`, and `c`.

4. Write a **statement** that, if the **value** of the **variable** `item` is **negative**, **add**s(加) its value to `negativeSum` but, if it is **positive**, adds its **value** to `positiveSum`. If, **on the other hand**(另一方面), the value of `item` is zero, the **statement** should **simply**(简单地) **increase**(增加) the **variable** `zeroCount` by one.
   
5. **Assume**(假定) that the following **declaration**s(声明) have been made.

```java
   int year;
   boolean isLeapYear; 
```

Write a **fragment**(片段) that will **assign**(赋值) `isLeapYear` the **value** `true` if `year` **represent**s(表示) a **leap year**(闰年) and `false` **otherwise**(否则). A year is usually a **leap year** if its number is a **multiple**(倍数) of four. It is not a **leap year**, **however**, if its number is a **multiple** of 100 but not a **multiple** of 400. (As examples, 1900 was not a **leap year** but 2000 was a **leap year**.)