# 3.6 Choosing From Many Alternatives

**Decision**s(决定；判定) with many **possible**(可能的) **choice**s(选项) can be **handle**d(处理) using **nest**ed(嵌套) if **statement**s but Java has another **statement**, the `switch`(开关) statement, that often makes choosing from many **alternative**s(选项) an **easier**(easy 的比较级) **task**(任务).

## Example 1

**To see**(动词不定式在句首表示为了) how a `switch` **statement** works, **suppose**(假设) that we are writing a program that **acts as**(act as 担任；充当) a **simple**(简单的) **calculator**(计算器). If **at some point**(在某一时刻) we have two **numerical**(数字的；数值的) **value**s(值) (**operand**1(操作数) and operand2) and a `char` **variable**(变量) **operator** with **possible** **value**s `'+'`, `'-'`, `'*'`, or `'/'`, **then**(那么) the following **fragment**(片段) will print the **value** of the **corresponding**(对应的) **expression**(表达式).

```java
switch (operator)
{
    case '+' : System.out.println(operand1 + operand2);
               break;
    case '-' : System.out.println(operand1 - operand2);
               break;
    case '*' : System.out.println(operand1 * operand2);
               break;
    case '/' : System.out.println(operand1 / operand2);
               break;
}
```

In **executing**(execute 执行) this **statement**, Java first **determine**s(决定) the **value** of **operator**. **Then**(然后), **based on**(以...为基础； 基于) this **value**, it **start**s(开始；出发) to **execute** the code **inside**(在...里面) the **brace bracket**s(花括号), **start**ing at the **point**(点；地点) **indicate**d(指出) by the **appropriate**(适当的) `case`. The `break;` statements **cause**(引起；使发生) Java to stop **executing** statements **inside** the `switch` and to **jump down to**(跳到) the point **just**(正好；恰好) after the switch. For example, if `operand1 = 3`, `operand2 = 4`, and `operator = '*'`, Java would print the **value** of `3 * 4` and then **exit**(退出) the `switch`.

In the example, the **final**(最后的) break; is not **necessary**(必要的) but it is a good programming **practice**(习惯) to put it there to **make sure**(确保) that the `switch` will **still**(仍然) work **correctly**(正确地) **even if**(即使), at some later time, an **extra**(额外的；特别的) **case**(情况) is added to it. As **others**(其他人) have **note**d(注意到), **a little**(一点) **extra**(额外的) **redundancy**(冗余) is often a good idea.

To **guard**(防止) **against**(反对)(guard against 防止...) the **possibility**(可能性) that no case **match**es(匹配) the **value** of the **expression** in the `switch`, we can (and **should**) **include**(包括) a **default**(默认的) **case** that **contain**s(包含) **statement**s to **execute** if there is no **match**. We can also have more than one case value **associate**d(关联) with the same **statement**s. **Both**(两者都) of these ideas are **illustrate**d(举例说明) in the next example.

## Example 2

This `switch` **statement** **assign**s(给...赋值) a **grade**(等级；成绩) **based on** a **quiz**(测验) that was **score**d(打分) out of five.

```java
switch (score)
{
    case 5: grade = 'A';
            break;
    case 4: grade = 'B';
            break;
    case 3: grade = 'C';
            break;
    case 2:
    case 1:
    case 0:  grade = 'F';
    default: System.out.println("Invalid score" + " - grade of ? assigned");
             grade = '?';
             break;
}
``` 

In any `switch` **statement**, the **expression** that **control**s(控制) it must have some **integer**(整数) **value** (`byte`, `short`, `int`, `long`, or `char`). This **expression** is usually **simply**(简单地) a **variable** but it can be an **arbitrarily**(任意地) **complex**(复杂的) **expression**; the case values, **on the other hand**(另一方面), must be **constant**s(常量). The **order**(顺序) of the cases is **arbitrary**(任意的). If there is no `default` case and the value of the **expression** does not **match** any of the cases, **then** the **statement** does nothing (and Java gives no **error**(错误) **message**(信息)).

## Exercise 3.6

1. Rewrite the following using the **indentation**(缩进) **style**(风格) shown in the text. 

```java
switch(month){case l: case 3:case 5:case 7:case 8:case 10 :case 12:1ength=31;
break;case 4:case 6:case 9:case 11: length=30;break;case 2:if(isLeapYear)length=29;else length=28;break;}
```

2. a) In Example 1, what would the **fragment** print if `operand1 = 8`, `operand2 = 2`, and `operator = '-'`?
   
   b) What would be printed with these values if there were no `break;` **statement**s in the `switch` statement? 
  
3. A **sequence**(序列) of six tests, all **score**d out of 100, are to be given **different**(不同的) **weighting**s(权重) in **determining**(determine 决定) a **final**(最终的) **mark**(分数). Write a program **fragment** that **compute**s(计算) the **appropriate** **weight**ed(加权) **score** for one test. The **fragment** should first read values of `testNumber` and `score`. 
Using a `switch` **statement**, it should then **compute** and print the **appropriate** value of `weightedScore` using the **weighting**s given in the **following** **table**(表格).

| Test Number | Weight |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | 10% |
| 2 | 20% |
| 3 | 20% |
| 4 | 15% |
| 5 | 15% |
| 6 | 20% |

For example, input of

```
3
27
```

Should **produce**(产生) output of

```       
A score of 27 on test 3 gives a weighted score of 5.4
```
 
4. Write a program **fragment** that prints, as a word, the value of the last **digit**(数字) of the `int` **variable** `number`. For example, if the value of `number` is 547, the **fragment** should print 

```
The last digit of 547 is seven.
```
   
5. Write a program that reads a date in **numeric**(数值的) **form**(形式) as a year **follow**ed(跟随) by a month followed by a day and **then**(然后) prints the date as **one** might on a **cheque**(支票). For example, input of 

```
2000 
7
1
```
 
should **produce** output of 

```
July 1, 2000       
```